# Excerpts from Section 5.3 in the assessment report

## Reproductive potential

Subsequent to the 2017 stock assessment, a new feature in MFCL was developed
allowing the reproductive potential ogive to be defined and input into the
assessment as a function of length. This length-based ogive is then converted
internally to a reproductive potential-at-age using a smooth-spline
approximation (Davies et al., 2019). This allows for a more natural definition
of reproductive potential as the product of three length-based processes:
proportion females-at-length (sex-ratio) (sex-ratio-at-length was calculated
from Regional Observer Program data in SPC's holdings through 2018), proportion
of females mature-at-length, and the fecundity-at-length of mature females
(Figure 11). Another added benefit is that this reproductive potential ogive
specified by length is growth invariant. The previous stock assessments were
required to redefine the reproductive potential-at-age ogive for each different
growth curve included in the assessment.

[Figure 11 from the 2020 assessment shows different reproductive ogives for the
different growth models, but that's because of the difference in proportion
males from the natural mortality analysis.]

In the previous stock assessment, female sex ratio was estimated from
reproductive data collected by fisheries observers, and then converted to
proportion female-at-age for input into MFCL. This length-to-age conversion
resulted in a greater decline in the proportion female-at-age than that observed
from the longline observer data. This exaggerated decline in proportion
female-at-age used in the previous stock assessment resulted in a dome-shaped
reproductive potential ogive (Figure 10 in Tremblay-Boyer et al., 2017) and
implied that 3-4 year old individuals made the largest contribution to spawning
potential. Using the length-based input of female sex-ratio-at-length, the
reproductive potential ogive, when converted to age, results in a larger
contribution from older age classes, but fish of age 3-4 years still have the
highest reproductive potential.

The second update to the reproductive potential ogive is the removal of spawning
fraction. Previous assessments included spawning fraction at age from EPO
yellowfin tuna (Schaefer, 1998) based on the sensitivity analysis of Hoyle and
Nicol (2008). Given the potential regional differences in the Pacific-basin
between the WCPO and EPO, we felt it more appropriate to remove this component
from the definition of the reproductive potential ogive. Model sensitivity to
the removal of spawning fraction from the reproductive potential ogive is
assessed in the stepwise model development.
